<TEI.2>
   <teiHeader type="text">
      <fileDesc>
         <titleStmt>
            <title>The Civil War: The Illustrated London News
Perspective</title>
            <respStmt>
               <resp>Compiled and edited by</resp>
               <name>Sandra Still</name>
            </respStmt>
         </titleStmt>
         <extent/>         
         <publicationStmt>
            <publisher>Lewis H. Beck Center</publisher>
            <pubPlace>Emory University</pubPlace>
            <address>
               <addrLine>Atlanta, Georgia</addrLine>
            </address>
            <availability>
               <p>1996 Emory University.
Permission is granted to download, transmit, or otherwise reproduce,
distribute or display the contributions to the work claimed by Emory
University for non-profit educational purposes, provided this header
is included in its entirety.  For inquiries about commercial uses,
contact the Lewis H. Beck Center, Woodruff Library, Emory University,
Atlanta, Georgia 30322</p>
            </availability>
            <date>2003</date>
         </publicationStmt>
         <seriesStmt>
            <title>The Civil War: The Illustrated
London News Perspective</title>
         </seriesStmt>
         <sourceDesc>
            <bibl>
               <title>The Illustrated London News</title>
               <biblScope type="volume">Volume 40</biblScope> 
               <date>JAN to JUNE<hi rend="smallcaps">R</hi> 1862</date>
            </bibl>
         </sourceDesc>
      </fileDesc>
      <encodingDesc>
         <projectDesc>
            <p/>
         </projectDesc>
      </encodingDesc>
      <revisionDesc>
      </revisionDesc>
   </teiHeader>
   <text> 
      <front/>
      <body>
         <div1 id="iln40.001" n="Illustrated London News: Volume 40" type="Volume">
            <head>Illustrated London News: Volume 40</head>
            <docDate>Jan to June 1862</docDate>

<div2 id="iln40.1125.001" n="[And here it becomes necessary]" type="Article">

<head>[And here it becomes necessary]</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1125</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 2</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 4, 1862</date>
         <extent>1 paragraph</extent>
	</bibl>
<p>And here it becomes necessary to infuse into our domestic chronicle
a foreign element. The disruption of the United States of America in
the spring, and the consequent civil war, has had an obvious bearing
on our interests and our policy. The path of neutrality and of
non-interference has been a narrow and a difficult one for our
statesmen to tread, owing to circumstances over which England has no
control, and to which we do not think it necessary now to do more than
allude. Unhappily, the affair of the Trent has left us in such a
position that on the first day of the new year we were anxiously
awaiting intelligence which would bear with it the issues of peace or
war with a kindred people. At this point it will not be out of place
to advert to the attitude which France has adopted towards this
country, one of loyal alliance and coincidence of opinion, which,
spontaneously expressed, has been followed by Austria and Prussia,
and, therefore, may be said to have gained the acceptance of the
majority of the Great Powers of Europe. Nor should we pass over the
remarkable signs which are apparent of a new era in the administration
of the affairs of France, taking a direction which can be traced to
the insensible influence of England; while the expansion of our trade
with our nearest neighbour, owing to the recent arrangements between
the two countries, has been such as to promise almost to compensate
for the, we trust temporary, loss of our commercial dealings wit 
h America.</p></div2>

<div2 id="iln40.1125.002" n="AMERICA" type="Article">

<head>AMERICA</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1125</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 3</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 4, 1862</date>
         <extent>24 paragraphs</extent>
	</bibl>
 
<p>By the arrival of the Africa we have news from New York to the 10th
ult. This steamer was detained for thirty-six hours by Lord Lyons in
order to take out dispatches [sic].</p>

<p rend="center">HOW THE NEWS FROM EUROPE WAS RECEIVED.</p>

<p>The steam-ship Europa arrived at Halifax on the morning of Sunday,
Dec. 15, bringing European advices to Dec. 2. A very full summary of
the opinions of the English press on the Mason end Slidell case, and
the important decision of the British Government as well as the
opinion of the law officers of the Crown, was telegraphed to New York
and Washington, where the news was received on Sunday afternoon. No
journals were published, however, on Sunday; but the nature of the
news gained currency through private circles, and caused intense
excitement-the more so as the previous advices per Hansa had led the
public to believe that there would be no difficulty with England on
this question.</p>
<p>A full telegraphic summary was published in the American journals
of Monday, Dec. 16, and the Mason and Slidell case became the
absorbing topic of the day. The press and the public generally seem to
deprecate war with England, and to cling to a vague idea that the
matter would be settled by some diplomatic arrangement. Unanimity at
first, however, appeared to prevail among the press and public upon
the most important part of the question-namely, the surrender of
Messrs. Mason and Slidell, and the universal opinion was that the
"national honour" of the country could never permit the surrender of
the prisoners under any circumstances whatever.</p>
<p>The following day, Dec. 17, the feeling universally was much calmer
and quieter throughout all circles, and the general opinion was that
war would certainly not ensue; the idea of giving up Messrs. Mason and
Slidell was even discussed, and its probability entertained, the
argument being, if the Federal Government was in the wrong in taking
these men, there is no disgrace in surrendering them; and if they were
right, the questioncan be discussed or settled by arbitration.</p>
<p>The Europa's mails were delivered in New York Dec. 18, and their
contents closely scrutinized[sic]. Captain Seymour, Queen's messenger,
and Mr. Cooke, messenger from Mr. Adams, arrived in New York on the
morning of Dec. 18, and at once left for Washington by special train,
where they arrived at midnight.</p>
<p>The tone of the New York morning journals of Dec. 18 was materially
changed on the Mason and Slidell question, and a degree of moderation
was observable in discussing the subject very different from the articles of the few previous weeks.</p>
<p>On the afternoon of the 18th news from England to Dec. 6 was
telegraphed from Portland, and the announcement of the formidable
warlike progress being made in Great Britain again created great excitement.</p>

<p rend="center">THE EFFECT ON THE COMMERCIAL CLASSES.</p> 

<p>The bankers began to discuss the propriety of suspending cash
payments, and held a meeting immediately to come to a decision
thereupon. The New York Bank statement of the 16th showed that a large
decrease of their stock of specie (to the amount of nearly 5,000,000
dols.) had taken place, although there had been no shipments to
Europe. It was perceived that hoarding had commenced; nevertheless,
the banks of the three chief cities agreed to continue for the present
to meet their obligations in coin if demanded.</p>

<p>In the Stock Market there was a general fall of about three per
cent, and in some instances of from five to six per cent. Sterling
exchange rose to 111. In the Produce Market saltpetre advanced to
15c. per pound; and at the public sales brimstone, tea, and coffee
were withdrawn.</p>

<p>On the 18th Secretary Chase arrived in New York, and was closeted
with the bankers all day. What passed at the interview was studiously
concealed from the public except that Mr. Chase assured the bankers
that the demands of England would not be made an occasion of war by
the Cabinet of Washington.</p>

<p rend="center">WASHINGTON</p>

<p>Lord Lyons had not had any interview with the Secretary of State up
to the hour of the steamer's leaving; but the American Cabinet had had
several protracted sittings, the spirit of which, according to public
rumour, tended towards a peaceful settlement. It is observed that the
Ambassadors of England, France, and Prussia did not attend the
President's levee.</p>

<p rend="center">CONGRESS.</p>

<p>The proceedings of this body have been important, both in a
domestic and international point of view. Mr. Lovejoy's motion
censuring General Halleck for his order forbidding slaves to enter his
camp was defeated in the House by 78 against 64. This is regarded as a
triumph of the Administrative and Conservative Republicans over the
Emancipationists. In the Senate a motion to inquire into the conduct
of the Secretary of State in causing the arrest of persons in the
loyal States was defeated by 25 against 17. The bill to grant 1000
dols. to the owners of the British ship Perthshire, for wrongful
detention, was passed by the House. Mr. Cox, in introducing the
measure, said "that the prompt action of Congress in awarding it as
intended as an earnest to Great Britain that this Government will he
as earnest to indemnify for a wrong as to defend a right." On the
16th, Mr. Vallandingham, of Ohio, a pro-slavery Democrat, introduced
resolutions calling upon the President to maintain the stand already
taken in regard to Captain Wilke's action, and pledging to him the
full support of the House in vindicating the courage of the Government
and people of the United Stairs against a foreign Power. He moved the
previous question, but the resolutions were referred to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs by a vote of 109 against 16, the mover and his
seconders voting in the negative. Nothing has yet been done by either
House towards carrying out the recommendation of the Secretary of the
Treasury concerning the emission of a national currency in lieu of the
bank-notes now in use.</p> 

<p rend="center">BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS.</p>

<p>The Federal armies have made no movement of importance during the
week. The popularity of M'Clellan is decidedly on the wane. Ship
Island, at the mouth of the Mississippi, has been occupied by the
Federals. Neither General Burnside's expedition nor that which has
been organized [sic] to descend the Mississippi had yet sailed.</p>

<p rend="center">THE CONFEDERATE STATES.</p>

<p>A terrible fire had broken out in Charleston, attributed to negro
incendiarism. Five hundred and seventy-six building were consumed,
including a majority of the churches and public buildings. The loss is
set down at 7,000,000 dollars. The case has been brought before the
Confederate Congress by a special message from President Davis, and a
sum of 250,000 dollars appropriated to the relief of the sufferers.</p>

<p>In Nashville gold is at a premium of 40, and silver of 35, per cent.</p>

<p rend="center">CANADA.</p>

<p>Public opinion in Canada supports the stand taken by the British
Government. The Canadian papers brought by the American mail are full
of military news. Preparations for war are being made on all hands,
and volunteering is being carried on with admirable spirit.</p>
	</div2>

<div2 id="iln40.1125.003" n="LATEST NEWS FROM ABROAD" type="Article">

<head>LATEST NEWS FROM ABROAD</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1125</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 3</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 4, 1862</date>
         <extent>4 paragraphs</extent>
	</bibl>

<p>The following telegrams were received through Mr. Renter's office
yesterday (Friday)</p>

<p> A<hi rend="smallcaps">MERICA</hi>.-New York, Dec. 20,
Afternoon.-(Per Anglo-Saxon, vi&aacute; Portland and Londonderry.)A
battle is reported to have taken place in Missouri in which 1500
Confederates, finding themselves surrounded by the Federal forces,
surrendered with their baggage and equipments. Reports are current
that the Confederates have evacuated Galveston. 120,000lb. of
sea-island cotton have arrived at New York from Beaufort:
400,000lb. more are reported ready to be shipped. Vice-President
Stephens, of the Southern Confederacy, is said to be seriously
ill. The projected Federal expedition under General Villes from
Beaufort has been abandoned. A treaty between America and Mexico is
reported to have been subjected to Congress, by which the Federal
Government agrees to pay Mexico 11,000,000 dollars to refund the
British and French claims. Mexico is to grant America commercial
privileges and permission to transport troops across the Mexican
territory.</p>

<p>T<hi rend="smallcaps">HE</hi> T<hi rend="smallcaps">RENT</hi> A<hi
rend="smallcaps">FFAIR</hi>.-New York, Dec. 21.-It is reported that
Lord Lyons has had several informal interviews with Mr. Seward, but
that no official communication on the subject of the Trent affair has
yet passed between them. It is rumoured [sic] that Mr. Seward sent a
communication to the British Government previous to the receipt of the
Europa's advice. The belief in a pacific solution is universal. The
New York <hi rend="italic">Herald</hi> and <hi
rend="italic">Times</hi> state that Messrs. Mason and Slidell will be
surrendered. The <hi rend="italic">World</hi> however, says that they
will not.</p>
	</div2>

<div2 id="iln40.1125.004" n="[ANNUAL EMIGRATION RETURNS-EXTRAORDINARY FALLING-]" type="Article">

<head>[ANNUAL EMIGRATION RETURNS-EXTRAORDINARY FALLING-]</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1125</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 3</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 4, 1862</date>
         <extent>1 paragraph</extent>
	</bibl>

<p>A<hi rend="smallcaps">NNUAL</hi> E<hi
rend="smallcaps">MIGRATION</hi> R<hi rend="smallcaps">ETURNS</hi>-E<hi
rend="smallcaps">XTRAORDINARY</hi> F<hi rend="smallcaps">ALLING</hi>-</p> 
<p><hi rend="smallcaps">OFF</hi>.-On Wednesday the emigration
officials at Liverpool issued their annual returns of the emigration
from that port during the past year. At the beginning of the present
year, and indeed up to May, there was every promise that the exodus
from this port would equal, if not surpass, that of any previous
year. In May, however, the American crisis assumed a serious aspect,
and the emigration all at once dropped off; and from that period up to
the present time there has been a regular and continued decrease, and
now the emigration trade of the port is at a complete
standstil1. Ships that formerly carried out their 500 to 700
passengers can now scarcely raise two dozen- indeed, brokers will
scarcely take the trouble of having a vessel surveyed by the
Emigration Commissioners, though the expense so trifling. The number
of vessels sailing under the Act, or Government supervision, and
number of passengers they carried, see as follows:-To the United
States, 139 vessels, of 220,213 tons burden, carried 1365 cabin and
26,212 steerage passengers; to Canada, seven vessels, 6720 tons,
carried 124 cabin and 1005 steerage passengers; to New South Wales,
two ships, 2344 tons, 526 steerage passengers; to Victoria, thirty
ships, 49,326 tons, 465 cabin and 9090 steerage passengers; to South
America, one ship, 287 tons, 8 cabin and 81 steerage passengers making
a total of 179 ships, and 38,879 passengers. Of ships not under the
Act, 348 carried to various parts of the world 6761 cabin and 9387
steerage passengers-16,148 passengers in all. Thus the total number of
passengers sailing under the Act was 38,879; and not under the Act,
16,148: 55,027 in all. Of these, 11,591 were English; 20,343 Irish;
2071 Scotch: the remainder belonged to other countries. In 1860 there
sailed under the Act 255 ships, 381,650 tons, 2796 cabin passengers
and 65,487 steerage passengers, or 68,283 passengers. In the same year
there left 15,491 passengers "not under the Act." Another feature of
this enormous decrease is, that whereas in former years people made
remittances to this country in order to assist their friends "at home"
to emigrate to the States, affairs are now reversed, and money is
forwarded through agents to bring people from America. The tide of
emigration to Australia flows slowly but steadily, and has hardly
received any impetus from the deranged state of American affairs.</p>
	</div2>

<div2 id="iln40.1125.007" n="" type="Illustration"></div2>

<div2 id="iln40.1125.006" n="THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS" type="Article">

<head>THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1125</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 6</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 4, 1862</date>
         <extent>3 paragraphs</extent>
	</bibl>



<p><hi rend="italic">LONDON, 8ATURDAY, JANUARY</hi> 4, 1862.</p>

<p>T<hi rend="smallcaps">HE</hi> events of the year having been
summarised [sic] in another part of our Impression, we have now to
complete the record by adding the latest news from the only part of
the world where events have at the moment a strong interest for
English readers. The arrival of the Africa places us in possession of
a large mass of details, which our contemporaries have sought to
arrange ingeniously, mosaic fashion, so as to present a picture of the
American mind with reference to the dispute with England. We do not
know, however, that the picture is a likeness, clever as is the
manipulation of material out of which it has been produced. The only
part which has, we think, been "reliably" (to use a vile word)
presented is that which indicates the surprise which has seized the
States at the attitude of this country. We have submitted so long, and
with such good-natured forbearance, to every caprice, whim, and
impertinence of our cousins that they had, not perhaps unreasonably,
concluded that we had lost sight of the truth that under some
circumstances patience ceases to be a virtue. We have shown, in
contradiction to the incessant allegations of the Transatlantic press,
that we did, understand America and the nature of American
institutions; and that, though ourselves working with a responsible
Government, mutually dependent, and resting on the opinion of the
intellectual and solvent classes of society, we could make all
allowances for the difficult position of a Government under the
dictation of mobs, and abandoned by the culpable selfishness of the
respectable population. But the last outrage has been so flagrant that
not only is England aroused, but all the strong Governments of
Europe-some of them little inclined to be friendly to us- exclaim with
united voice that such a thing cannot be borne; and the intimation of
Earl Russell that there is a limit to our forbearance, though such
notification was a matter of indisputable necessity, has astonished
the Americans. The various utterances of the journals are not worth
collecting, except in so far as they reflect the opinion of the
peoples or may be supposed to be acceptable to it. The better men in
the States are said to have recognized [sic] the justice of our
demand, the Commander of the Army (at whom the Democratic party is
said to cast strange glances, as at a future Dictator who shall put
down the Abolitionists) having at once declared, it is alleged, that
Mr. Lincoln must restore the Commissioners and apologise [sic] to
England. But the formal delivery of the English demand would seem not
to have taken place when the Africa's bag was sealed. The Congress, so
ready the other day with a sycophantic compliment to Captain Wilks,
had refused by 109 to 16 to back up his "action" any further, and had
referred the question to the Government itself. Mr. Chase, the
American Gladstone, had assured the representatives of the financial
interest that the dispute would receive a speedy and pacific
solution. So far, therefore, things may be said to look a little
better; but it would be worse than foolish to augur that the danger of
war has passed away. We wish that we could believe the Seward party
wise enough and patriotic enough to consider the question only on its
merits. They have never given any proof of such a statesmanlike
disposition. They have sought nothing but popularity and the applause
of that part of the populace whose good opinion to a reproach to
honest men. Meantime they are being hard pressed by the Abolitionists,
who are more in earnest than any other section of the American public,
and who, naturally, are indignant that the slavery-hating Englishman
is placed in such a situation that he cannot sympathise [sic] with the
enemies of the slaveowner. It is hinted that the Abolitionists me much
more active hostility to the Government, and already the alarmists on
the Seward side threaten the severest reprisals. With such foes close
upon them, and with the discontent which the impatient mob is showing
at the prudential inactivity of General M'Clellan (there were idiots,
even in the London Common Council, who assailed Lord Wellington in the
same way for his unmatched Peninsular tactics), and with a fearful
expenditure to provide for out of an almost empty treasury, the
position of the divided and intriguing Cabinet of Mr. Lincoln is far
from enviable. This is to be much regretted, because the fact may make
it impossible for the President to do what justice and true wisdom
dictate in regard to England. He may feel himself obliged to make
political capital, and refuse to yield the men, at the risk of
bringing down prompt chastisement from the armed hand of England. A
brilliant victory over the South at this moment would be the best
guarantee for peace between us and the Americans-the national vanity
would be appeased and prudent counsels would have a chance of
prevailing. But there is small hope of anything of the kind; General
M'Clellan adheres to the Fabian system; and, though he counsels
justice, he takes no steps to do what alone would make justice
tolerated. In this, of course, we have no right to blame him. If his
own views of the future are such as are imputed to him-and if they are
he is far too wise a man to give any sign of the kind-he may not be
displeased to see the Government embarrassed by enemies whom it may be
his mission to put down. Thus the matter rests until fresh advices
arrive; and we repeat that the utmost that the last dispatches [sic]
permit us to say is, that the Americans are surprised at our energetic
protest against outrage, and seem inclined to consider that we may
have good grounds for action.</p>
	</div2>
<div2 id="iln40.1125.007" n="THE MASON AND SLIDELL CASE, AND ITS EFFECT
ON THE AMERICANS." type="Article">

<head>THE MASON AND SLIDELL CASE, AND ITS EFFECT<lb/>
ON THE AMERICANS.</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1125</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 19</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 4, 1862</date>
         <extent>9 paragraphs</extent>
	</bibl>

<p>(<hi rend="smallcaps">From our Special Artist and
Correspondent</hi>.)</p>

<p rend="right">W<hi rend="smallcaps">ASHINGTON</hi>, Dec. 6.</p> 
<p>A <hi rend="smallcaps">FEW</hi> hours after dispatching my last
letter I heard of an act which had I known of sooner would probably
have induced me to suppress much that I had written favourable [sic]
to the Union cause. A people's conceit had been overlooked by me in my
belief in a principle, and I had smothered much of that feeling which
most Englishmen are prone to after a probationary course of American
arrogance. Anxious to do my duty to your readers, and honestly to
publish my convictions, I have never for a moment allowed myself to be
carried away by acrimoniousness, and personally I have heard much that
is bitter for an Englishman to hear. As I have said before, I have
looked upon the Union as a principle that should and ought to be
preserved-as an edifice, great and wonderful of its kind, built at the
cost of infinite intellect, wealth, and labour [sic]. Though the
architecture that has served for model in its construction may be
contrary to our notions of perfection, yet we cannot see a noble pile
destroyed without some feeling of compunction at its ruin. In this
spirit have my former letters been written.</p>
<p>Your readers are long before this aware that an English Royal Mail
steamer has been boarded by a United States' ship of war, and from
beneath the folds of the British flag four gentlemen belonging to the
"Southern Confederacy" have been forcibly removed. As to the legality
of this act I have nothing to say; it rests with the authorities on
international law to decide the question between the two Governments,
though as a subject of Great Britain I, with the captain of the Trent,
must protest against the violation of that flag which it is an
Englishman's creed to believe inviolable. But I have much to say in
reference to the bearing of the people of the Northern States since
they have been informed of this, according to their journals, "most
heroic achievement." It will make us all blush, when we turn back to
our chronicles of the sea, to find how utterly insignificant are the
deeds of our own naval commanders when compared to the brilliant
exploit of the Captain of the San Jacinto and her crew in boarding an
unarmed passenger-ship. I am not writing idly while giving utterance
to this sentiment. I am prompted to do so by the panegyrics pronounced
by one and all here on the deed which is to form "the brightest page
in contemporaneous history;" and, being in the minority, I must needs
bow deferentially to the opinions of the mass. But if, in the
minority, I might presume to express my own notions of what has been
done, I should suggest the idea that, if Captain Wilks be an honest,
true-hearted sailor, he must repudiate thoroughly, and with feelings
of something more than disgust, the vile and maudlin adulation of
those who would seek to magnify into Nelsonian proportions an event
which he, probably, estimating at its proper value, would soon have
forgotten. I am not going to quarrel with Captain Wilks for placing
himself in the position which has elevated him, through the absurdity
of his countrymen to the somewhat ludicrous pedestal on which he finds
himself. He no doubt considered he was doing his duty; and it remains
for Crown lawyers and other learned authorities to determine whether
he has done so or not.</p>
<p>When the first intelligence reached here of the capture of Slidell
and Mason, with their secretaries, the public excitement was greater
than anything I have witnessed throughout my experience of the
campaign. The arguments at the American Bar (rooms) went fast and
furious; the <hi rend="smallcaps">pros and cons</hi> (few of the
latter) were bandied from one stump orator to another, and most of the
discussions ended in any amount of smashes (brandy-smashes, I mean),
while numerous skins (whisky skins) were roughly handled by judge and
jury. "Waal [sic] now, Mister, I guess that the overhauling of that
thaar [sic] Britisher[sic] is a big thing anyhow, and I'll be dogged
if Cap'n Wilks ain't been right smart to lay a hand on them skunks"
(meaning the Southern Commissioners). This opinion was of course
received with unanimous applause, when another gentleman moved "That
now Uncle Sam had got'em [sic] in his fist he should squeege'em [sic]
pretty tight, and not mind nary international laws." Amongst the
better classes the feeling is just as strong in favour [sic] of what
has been done, and I have heard persons of consideration say that they
would rather see Slidell and Mason hanged in the face of an English
fleet than have them given up should international treaties place
England in position to demand their surrender. But the other day I
overheard the following conversation in reference to the possible
recognition of the South, and the probable demand of England for
reparation to her flag:--"Now, just look here: can't Pennsylvania
raise 800,000 men?" "Well, she can whip France, and I reckon New York
can fix England, and tother[sic] States can easily whip the South."</p>
<p>There is hardly a corporation in New York or Boston that has not
given a public reception to Captain Wilks. City halls have been turned
into josshouses[sic], and the guest has been made the joss before whom
all have bent in wondering admiration. Historical societies have
thrown wide their portals, their members have assembled in solemn
conclave to welcome to their midst the hero of the hour, and with the
leaves of their ponderous tomes spread open, and goose-quills neatly
nibbed[sic], they have told the rough seaman that such men as he made
history, and that theirs was the task in the present instance of
inscribing one of the brightest pages in the chronicles of
centuries. Can the momentous drama now being acted in the New World be
so travestied? Can an intelligent people be duped by such mockeries
and not perceive their shallowness? The system of raising a golden
calf one day and falling prostrate in blind worship before it, then
breaking it to pieces the next because the prayers offered have not
been answered, is very much the fashion here just now. First we see
the veteran Scott removed from the high pinnacle beneath which
thousands chanted their hymns of praise. Numerous minor idols of
popular or political belief follow in his wake, while only latterly
Fremont the chosen has been summarily dismissed from his command to
make way for a successor whose career may be more short-lived
still. And, if the signs of the times may be accepted as an omen, "the
coming man, the modern Alexander, the young Napoleon," as journalists
have delighted to term M'Clellan, with oceans of other adulatory
titles-he, too, has nearly run his course. Already strong parties are
sapping at the foundations of the pedestal on which he stands, and a
bitingly-sarcastic pamphlet has appeared bitterly attacking him for
his want of energy and the sluggishness of his movements. How long,
let me ask, will Captain Wilkes maintain his position in the niche
which he at present occupies in the Walhalla of Northern heroes? Well,
in the discussions that have been created by this all-absorbing topic
of Slidell and Mason, much has been elicited that is antagonistic to
England; and I, who have been a strong partisan of the North, lament
that it should be so. The arrogance and selfishness of those whose
cause in my Lilipntian manner I had espoused has been portrayed as I
never saw it before, and I feel I have only been doing my duty in
expressing myself as strongly as I have.</p>
<p>With regard to the conduct of the war I can say but little; matters
on the Potomac remain nearly in statu[sic] quo, The vast accumulation
of troops, much better drilled and disciplined then they were, are
lying idle within their lines, though it is impossible to say whether
they will go into winter quarters where they are or advance. With the
exception of a few reconnaissances, no movement whatever has taken
place, and this torpid condition of matters is raising a great outcry
throughout the North; the capitalists who have been furnishing
Government with funds expressing loudest of all their discontent. It
appears to me that the plan of the Cabinet is to operate on the
Southern seaboard by means of naval expeditions, and I suspect they
hope to draw off from the centre the troops of the Carolinas,
Louisiana, &c., for the protection of their various States. The
success of such strategy would have the effect of weakening the
Confederate forces at Centreville and Manassas, where it is reported
they have an army of over 70,000 men, strongly intrenched[sic], and
perhaps enable M'Clellan to make a dash towards Richmond. However this
may be, I am getting tired of this continual "Wait another week and
you will see something done,' which I am constantly being told by
officers high in command. At present I am almost at a standstill for
subjects for illustration, and I shall have shortly, in case of
nothing transpiring here, to look around me seriously for another
field. The only persons who appear to me to display any amount of
activity are the greedy hordes of hungry contractors, who are
determined to have their pound of flesh from the sorely-pressed
Union. They flock here in myriads, and it was only last evening that I
had pointed out to me a gentleman with a gracefully-curved proboscis
who, by a lucky stroke of "Pishness, my tears," had succeeded in
bagging a hundred thousand dollars of the public money.</p>
<p rend="right">F.V.</p></div2>

<div2 id="iln40.1125.008" n="THE RELATIONS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENTS OF 
GREAT BRITAIN AND THE UNITED STATES, FROM 
THE TREATY OF GHENT UNTIL THE INAUGURATION OF 
PRESIDENT LINCOLN." type="Article">

<head>THE RELATIONS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENTS OF<lb/> 
GREAT BRITAIN AND THE UNITED STATES, FROM<lb/> 
THE TREATY OF GHENT UNTIL THE INAUGURATION OF<lb/> 
PRESIDENT LINCOLN.</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1125</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 19</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 4, 1862</date>
         <extent>24 paragraphs</extent>
	</bibl>

<p>I<hi rend="smallcaps">T</hi> is necessary to preface the following
catalogue of the principal international questions which engaged the
attention of the Governments of Great Britain and the United States
from 1814 to 1861 by observing that the object of the editor is not
the base one of further inflaming the public mind against the United
States' Government and people, but the simple and legitimate one of
affording desirable and seasonable information to the readers of this
Journal. In order, further, to guard against the possibility of
misconstruction, we beg to draw attention to three facts-first, that
the seceded States are equally responsible with the loyal States for
the past policy of the United States, be it good or evil; secondly,
that the present Administration and Congress of the United States are
substantially revolutionised organisations which ought not in equity
to be held too strictly accountable for the misdeeds of a past with
which they do not, in many respects, desire to be identified; and,
thirdly, that the great mass of the party now in power in the United
States consists of those, or the sons of those, who in former times
have loyally striven to preserve peace between the two countries, and
without whose co-operation that peace could never have been so long
preserved unbroken. If, on the present occasion, the conduct of the
Republican Administration and Senate on this their first trial only
rises to a level with the maxims of the extinct Federalist and Whig
parties, whose political heirs they are, there is no danger of the
affair of the Trent being allowed to drift into the last extremity of
war.</p>
<p> In 1817 General Jackson, of Tennessee, warring against the
Seminole Indians in Georgia and Alabama, marched into Florida, then a
Spanish possession, without declaring war, seized two Indian traders
named Arbuthnot, a Scotchman, and Ambrister, an Englishman, whom he
accused of inciting the Indians to hostilities, and tried them by a
court-martial, which sentenced the former to imprisonment, the latter
to death. General Jackson took upon himself the responsibility of
executing both. The Marquis of Lansdown, at the opening of the Session
in 1819, brought the subject before the House of Lords, and
stigmatised the act as "one of those naked acts of violence which
disgraced those by whom it was committed." Lord Liverpool stated in
reply that the execution took place without the authority of the
American Government, and that the act was not such as necessitated a
demand for reparation, the refusal of which would necessarily bring on
a war between the two countries. The action of General Jackson in
overruling the milder sentence of the court-martial could not, he
said, be spoken of without horror. No more notice was taken of the
event in Parliament; but the Opposition party in Congress loudly
condemned the conduct of General Jackson. It is a little singular that
this outrage, which is narrated in every school history in the United
States, where the unfortunate victims figure as "English emissaries,"
is not even alluded to either in our "Annual Register," "Knight's
Pictorial History of England," or Miss Martineau's "Thirty Years'
Peace."</p>
<p>In 1818 a commercial treaty was made between the two Governments.</p>
<p>In 1828 President Monroe and Mr. Canning co-operated in securing
the independence of the revolted Spanish American colonies. It was on
this occasion that the celebrated "Monroe doctrine," directed against
European interference on the American continent was first broached.</p>
<p>In 1887 the Canadian rebellion broke out and engendered a plentiful
crop of troubles. American "sympathisers" on the northern frontier,
after robbing the United States' Arsenal at Buffalo of its store of
arms, crossed the border and joined themselves to the rebels. A party
of them took possession of Navy Island, in the Niagara River, two
miles above the Falls, and within the jurisdiction of Canada. They
were supplied by a small steamer called the Carolina. One night a
party of Canadian militia, under the command of Sir Allan M'Nab,
crossed the river, cut the Caroline from her moorings in American
waters, set her afire, and let her float down the Falls. An American
citizen, named Durfee, shared the fate of the Caroline; and public
opinion in many quarters called on President Van Buren to declare war
against Great Britain; but wiser counsels prevailed. No reparation was
ever made for this act.</p>
<p>In 1840 this affair was the parent of another singular
complication. Alexander M'Leod, a loyal Irishman, while in a tavern at
Lockport, in the State of New York, made a foolish boast to the effect
that he was one of the party engaged in cutting out the Caroline. A
mob arrested him and threw him into gaol on the charge of aiding in
the murder of Durfee. The British Minister at Washington protested
against this act of the mob, declaring the operation to have been
effected in obedience to the colonial authorities, and therefore an
international question, for which an individual engaged therein as a
soldier was not liable. The British Government assumed the
responsibility of the destruction of the Carolina, and demanded the
release of the prisoner. The local magistrates were about to release
him on bail, but a mob overawed them. A committee of the Federal House
of Representatives demanded that the man should be held. As the
Federal Government would not prosecute, the State of New York stepped
in and tried M'Leod for an offence against one of her
citizens. Fortunately there was unquestionable evidence of an alibi,
and a verdict of acquittal was procured.</p>
<p>For many years the disputed question of the North-Eastern or Maine
boundary had been a chronic source of trouble between the two
countries. Fortunately for the cause of peace, the Whig party
triumphed in the Presidential election of 1840, and the Administration
of President Harrison immediately addressed itself to the task of
settling this formidable difficulty. On the British side Lord Aberdeen
was actuated by similar feelings, and Lord Ashburton was sent over to
the United States charged with this special mission. He and
Mr. Webster, the then Secretary of State, negotiated a treaty
(ratified in 1842) which settled the boundary line as it stands at
present. There were parties on both sides who were discontented with
this negotiation. Lord Palmerston stigmatised it as "the Ashburton
Capitulation." In reply to analogous attacks in the United States
Senate, Mr. Webster produced a map with the boundary line marked in
the handwriting of George III, which proved he had made a good
bargain. His conduct in concealing this map from Lord Ashburton was
unfavourably commented on in England, though defended by the chiefs of
the Conservative party.</p>
<p>At the same time the treaty for the suppression of the African
slave trade was entered into. The "right of visit" was tacitly
allowed, and the Americans agreed to keep a squadron on the African
coast to guard against the abuse of the American flag.</p>
<p>The case of the Virginian brig Creole arose in October, 1841. While this vessel was on its way from Norfolk to New Orleans, some slaves, who formed part of the cargo, obtained possession of the ship, wounded the captain and some of the crew, killed a passenger who owned some of the slaves, aud[sic] carried the vessel into the British port of Nassau, New Providence. Of the 123 slaves on board nineteen were arrested, on the requisition of the American consul, on the charge of mutiny and murder. The case against the negroes was pressed with zeal by the Federal Government, but the law officers and law peers of Great Britain were unanimous that there was no law by which the negroes could be tried or detained. The nineteen prisoners were therefore set free.</p>
<p>The Maine boundary question had hardly been settled when the Oregon
or North-Western boundary dispute acquired highly-dangerous
proportions. Even so early as 1822 Lord Castlereagh told the American
Minister in London that such was the condition of this question that
war could be kindled by holding up a finger. In 1818 an agreement had
been entered into opening the Oregon territory to the occupation of
settlers from both countries. On this footing things had remained
until 1844. The partisans of war sent out thither a numerous American
emigration, which greatly added to the difficulty of a peaceful
settlement. The American war party claimed the whole territory up to 5
4deg. 40 min.; and in the Presidential election of 1844 Mr. Polk, who
was pledged to enforce this claim by war, if necessary, was elected in
preference to Mr. Clay, the Whig candidate, who favoured a
compromise. Mr. Polk's Message in December, 1845, was substantially a
war message; but, thanks to the moderation of the Senate, where the
Whig and Southern Democratic senators acted in alliance, a compromise
was agreed to settling the line to the Pacific at 49 deg., and giving
the island of Vancouver to Great Britain. President Polk, in assenting
to this arrangement in 1846, threw the responsibility upon the
Senate.</p>
<p>In 1850 the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty was made, about the true
construction of which a serious difference was to arise a few years
later.</p>
<p>In 1852 the Newfoundland fishery dispute broke out. Lord Derby's
Government sent instructions to the commanding Admiral to protect the
exclusive rights of the colonists within three marine miles of the
coasts of British North America, as provided for by the Treaty of
1818. The execution of these instructions caused great excitement in
the United States, which was increased by the inflammatory popular
speeches of Mr. Webster, then Secretary of State. American ships of
war were ordered to the spot end a collision was imminent.</p>
<p>The final settlement of this question was effected by the
Reciprocity Treaty of 1854, negotiated at Washington by Lord
Elgin. According to this arrangement the legislation affecting the
commerce between the United States and British America was altered in
a free-trade direction, the navigation of the St. Lawrence was opened
to American bottoms, and the exclusive right of shore-fishing was
abandoned.</p>
<p>In consequence of the filibustering expedition of Lopez against
Cuba, the Governments of Great Britain and France, in 1853, invited
the Government of the United States to enter into a tripartite treaty
to guarantee the possession of Cuba to the Spanish Crown. Mr. Everett,
then Secretary of State, refused to accede to the proposal.</p>
<p>In 1854 President Pierce, on some trifling pretext, ordered the
bombardment of Greytown, a city under the protection of Great
Britain. This act received the reprobation of the principal
Governments of the civilised world.</p>
<p>In 1856 the differences between Great Britain and the United States
on the Central American question came to a crisis. Under the
provisions of the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty the American Government
claimed that Great Britain was bound to surrender her possessions in
British Honduras, the Bay Islands, and the Mosquito Protectorate. Lord
Clarendon declined to accede to this interpretation, but offered to
abide by the award of a third party. To this the American Government
would not listen, and at the commencement of 1856 war seemed
imminent. Nevertheless, the American Government did not press its
requisitions to the point of war, and, after some fruitless attempts
to negotiate on a more moderate basis, this question has been settled
by the abandonment by Great Britain of the Mosquito Protectorate and
the Bay Islands, the former by treaty with the State of Nicaragua, the
latter by treaty with the State of Honduras.</p>
<p>In 1856 occurred the dismissal of the British Minister at
Washington (Mr. Crampton), on the false charge of having engaged in
the enlistment of soldiers for the British service on United States'
soil, Great Britain then being at war with Russia. On a similar charge
of breach of the neutrality laws three British Consuls had their
exequaturs withdrawn from them.</p>
<p>In the same year the resolutions of the Congress of Paris in
reference to maritime law were submitted to the United States
Government for adoption. The Administration of President Pierce
refused to assent to that article which abolished privateering, unless
a clause were added exempting private property from seizure at sea. To
this proposal the Government of Lord Palmerston refused to assent, and
it was afterwards withdrawn by Mr. Buchanan, the successor of
Mr. Pierce.</p>
<p>In the same year the United States' Government purchased of the
salvors the derelict British barque Resolute, of the Arctic
Expedition, equipped and refitted her, and sent her back to England.</p>
<p>During Mr. Buchanan's term of office, with the close of which this
resum&eacute; will terminate, but two points of difference arose. In
1858 the British Government, in the desire of stopping the slave trade
off the coast of Cuba, exercised "the right of visit" in the Gulf of
Mexico. This caused a unanimous burst of indignation from both the
great parties of the United States, and the practice was formally
abandoned by the British Government. All propositions for adopting
means by which the nationality of vessels suspected of being engaged
in the slave trade could be ascertained were rejected by the
Administration of Mr. Buchanan.</p>
<p>In the same year the Atlantic cable was laid, and messages of
mutual good will were exchanged between the Queen and the President
and the Mayors of London and New York.</p>
<p>In 1859 General Harney seized the island of St. Juan, the right to
which is claimed by both nations under the treaty relating to the
North-western boundary. This act of General Harney, being contrary to
an express understanding between the two Governments that neither
party should occupy the island until the right of possession had been
determined, led to a remonstrance by the British Governments. General
Scott was sent to the Pacific coast to overrule General Harney. The
affair terminated in the joint occupancy of the island, and in the
recall of the offending General.</p>
<p>In 1860, on the invitation of President Buchanan, the Prince of
Wales made a tour through the Northern and Western States. The
incidents of this memorable tour are still so fresh in the public mind
that it is unnecessary to dwell upon them. It will be a terrible irony
on the civilisation of the age, a standing reproach against human
nature, if this visit of reconciliation- which seemed to be a fitting
finale to a bitter and long-standing international feud- should, after
all, be nothing but a mocking prelude to a third war with the United
States- war so often imminent, yet, as we have seen, as often
avoided.</p>
	    </div2>


<div2 id="iln40.1125.009" n="[The Norfolk Daybook, a Virginian
      newspaper]" type="Article">

<head>[The Norfolk Daybook, a Virginian newspaper]</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1125</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 23</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 4, 1862</date>
         <extent>1 paragraph</extent>
	</bibl>

<p>The <hi rend="smallcaps">Norfolk Daybook</hi>, a Virginian
newspaper, has been making its appearance on brown wrapping-paper.</p>
	    </div2>

<div2 id="iln40.1125.010" n="[PNEUMATIC PILE-BRIDGE]" type="Article">

<head>[PNEUMATIC PILE-BRIDGE]</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1125</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 30</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 4, 1862</date>
         <extent>1 paragraph</extent>
	</bibl>

<p>P<hi rend="smallcaps">NEUMATIC</hi> P<hi
rend="smallcaps">ILE</hi>-B<hi
rend="smallcaps">RIDGE</hi>--Mr. C. C. Martin, the American engineer
who completed the Brooklyn Waterworks, carried on the erection of a
bridge across the Savannah River until interrupted by the civil
war. This bridge is on the line of the Charleston and Savannah
Railroad, about sixteen miles from the latter city. When completed, it
will consist of six fixed spans and a swing-bridge, with an aggregate
length of 900 feet. The two abutments and seven piers are to consist
of pneumatic piles-the abutments and four piers to be of two piles
each, the piers at the end of the swing-bridge to consist of four
cylinders each, and the pivot-pier of five. The cylinders are cast in
sections, nine feet in length and six feet outside diameter, with two
inches of metal. The apparatus for sinking these piles consists of a
large flat boat, upon which is placed a 16-horse power steam-engine,
and two double-acting air-pumps, hoisting apparatus, &c. In the <hi
rend="italic">Journal of the Franklin Institute</hi>, Philadelphia,
appears an interesting account of the process of sinking the
cylinders, with illustrative woodcuts. Two portions of cylinder are
made airtight by whitelead, and held in proper position by "guys,"
&c. The pumps are set in action, and the cylinder sinks into the sand
(about six feet in three minutes) on the application of a vacuum. As
the process proceeds, a syphon pipe and other apparatus are
employed. When at last a stopcock is opened, and the compressed air is
allowed to escape suddenly, the upward pressure from within is removed
and the cylinder, by its own weight, forces itself deeply into the
sand. The amount of sand which enters the cylinder under the bottom
when the pressure is allowed to escape is astonishing. When a cylinder
sank less then a foot the sand rose inside it twenty-two feet (equal
to twenty-one cubic yards), which was brought in by the rushing water
in a few minutes. On one occasion, when the men were at work in a
cylinder, they suddenly heard a sound like the report of a cannon, and
all became as dark as night. The report was occasioned by the sudden
removal of the pressure from without, while within the air was
condensed. The darkness was occasioned by the rapid condensation of
the vapour held in invisible suspension in the condensed air, forming
a thick fog.</p>
	    </div2>


<div2 id="iln40.1125.011" n="PROSPECTS OF THE YEAR" type="Article">

<head>PROSPECTS OF THE YEAR</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1126</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 33-34</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 11, 1862</date>
         <extent>5 paragraphs</extent>
	</bibl>

<p>Although we believe that there was scarcely an Englishman whose
first and warmest feeling was not a determination to hold to the
honour of his country and the vindication of international rights, yet
it can hardly be supposed that any one amongst us was blind to the
sacrifices and the inevitable consequences which must follow a hostile
venture of any kind who did not recognise the truth of the saying that
peace is the happy, natural state of man, and that it were better that
she should be allowed still to go on achieving those victories which
are no less renowned than those of war. In short, the point on which
the fortunes, the events, and the happiness, more or less, of the new
year turned was our relations with the Federal States of America.</p>
<p>If to a certain extent we are still held in suspense in that
respect, there is now much, very much, to encourage the hope of a
pacific solution of a difficulty, the extent and importance of which
we in this country at least have never underrated. In the first
instance, as we all know, the matter in dispute did not strike on the
American mind with any sense of that real magnitude which has since
been somewhat more acknowledged. The palpable change in the feeling,
as we believe, which has come over the bulk of those whose influence
on the action of the Federal Government could probably not be
overrated seems to be the most natural thing in the world. The mind of
England was expressed with a unanimity, a directness, and a thorough
apprehension of the gravity of the question; the course of her
Majesty's Ministers was prompt, the deliberations of a single Cabinet
Council resulting in a special address to the Government of
Washington, the substance of which it was evident must be in
accordance with the voice of public opinion; and at once, and with an
activity which spoke well for the condition of our administrative
departments, preparations were made for any eventuality. The process
of reasoning amongst the Americans must have received its first
impulse from these facts; at least the notion that what had occurred
was a small matter involving no serious consequences must have been at
once disabused. Reaction, arising, not from anything which could be
construed into timidity, but from an appreciation of<pb n="34"/> the
importance of the issue, may reasonably be supposed to have even then
commenced in the States. But when it was ascertained that first and
foremost France, then Prussia, then Austria, and, as it is said, even
Russia, spontaneously expressed opinions that, on principles of
international law, the affair of the Trent cannot be justified, it was
hardly to be conceived that a nation which the leading Powers of the
civilised world in combination declare to be in the wrong could
persist in backing up its error even at the cost of a war, which to
call disastrous would be employing a very feeble phrase indeed. There
never was a situation in which a great people could afford to act
gracefully and to bend, with no loss of honour, before an acknowledged
law of society. It seems to us that it would have been mere frenzy in
the Americans to stick to a quarrel which, in universal international
opinion, is deficient in that element of justice which, did it exist,
would thrice arm those who espouse it. To the petulant outbreaks on
this question of the professors of "bunkum" which some of the latest
accounts tell us have not been wanting, even in the comparatively
sedate discussions of the Senate, we attached little weight, for we
believed they were no longer in accordance with the feeling of the
American people at large; and, if the matter in dispute has been
settled with less graciousness than might be desired, it will be owing
to some such ruder spirits as those who have recently made
uncompromising motions in Congress with a want of success which is in
itself not a little significant.</p>
<p>Happily we are able to say that the first great cause which must
have influenced the destinies of the twelve months into which we have
just entered has been removed; that there will be no war...</p>
<p>As we set out, so we conclude, that, when we looked forward to the
new year, much, if not all, of its happiness depended on the news we
were awaiting from our kindred in the West. Now that we know that
there is to be peace between us, we do not reflect with anything but
satisfaction on the course which this country adopted, and we think
with equal pleasure on the course which has been adopted by the
American Government.</p>
	    </div2>

<div2 id="iln40.1125.012" n="AMERICA" type="Article">

<head>AMERICA</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1126</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 34-35</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 11, 1862</date>
         <extent>41 paragraphs</extent>
	</bibl>

<p>B<hi rend="smallcaps">Y</hi> the arrival of the Jura we have news
from New York to the 28th ult. The City of Washington's advices had
previously relieved us of our painful suspense as to the issue of
peace or war.</p>

<p>SURRENDER OF MESSRS MASON AND SLIDELL.</p>

<p>Lord Lyons received his despatches early on the 19th ult., and had
several unofficial interviews with Mr. Seward, at which the demands of
the British Government were made known to the American Secretary, but
not formally delivered. Mr. Seward met Lord Lyons in a friendly
manner, but entered into no conversation with him on the points
involved. It was not till the 23rd that Lord Lyons formally presented
the demands of the British Government to Mr. Seward, who received a
copy of Earl Russell's despatch.</p>
<p>Lord Lyons informed Mr. Seward that he would wait till the 30th for
a reply.</p>
<p>On the 25th M. Mercier, the French Minister at Washington,
presented M. Thouvenel's letter to Mr. Seward, and on the 27th, three
days before the expiration of the term granted by Lord Lyons,
Mr. Seward conceded the demands made by Earl Russell.</p>
<p>After coming to this resolution the American Administration
immediately published the correspondence, in order, probably, to
justify its course in the eyes of Congress and public opinion. The
Jura brings the following summary thereof:-</p>
<p>The correspondence commences with a despatch from Mr. Seward to
Mr. Adams in London, dcelaring that Captain Wilks acted without
instructions, and hoping that the British Government would consider
the subject in a friendly temper. Mr. Seward says also that the
British Government may expect the best disposition on the part of the
Federal Government.</p>
<p>The next despatch is from Earl Russell to Lord Lyons, stating the
outrage on the British flag, and hoping that the act was committed
without instructions from the Federal Government, as that Government
must be aware that Great Britain cannot allow such an affront to pass
without reparation. Earl Russell expresses a hope that the Federal
Government will offer suitable redress by giving up the four prisoners
to Lord Lyons.</p>
<p>Mr. Seward replied that the English Government rightly conjectured
that the act was without the authority or knowledge of the Federal
Government. He trusts that England will see that the Federal
Government neither practised nor approved any deliberate wrong in the
transaction, and declares that Great Britain has a right to demand the
same reparation as the United States would expect from any friendly
nation in a similar case. Mr. Seward says he is aware that he argues
on the British side of the case; but in doing so he is only defending
American principles. He quotes the instructions from Mr. Madison,
Secretary of State in 1804, to Mr. Monroe, Minister to England, and
says, "If I decide this case in favour of my own Government I must
disallow its most cherished principles and for ever abandon its most
cherished policy; but the country cannot afford such a sacrifice. The
Government cannot deny the justice of England's claim." Mr. Seward, in
conclusion, states that the four prisoners are at the disposal of Lord
Lyons, and asks his Lordship to indicate a time and place for
receiving them.</p>
<p>Lord Lyons, in his reply, says he will forward Mr. Sewards
communication to the British Government, and will confer personally
with him in regard to the reception of the four gentlemen.</p>
<p>The note from M. Thouvenel to the French Minister on the Trent
affair is included in the correspondence.</p>
<p>On the 24th it was said on good authority that thus far only the
President and Secretary Seward had handled the question on the
American side, the last regular Cabinet meeting having been adjourned
by a note from Mr. Lincoln, to avoid the risk of a general and
premature discussion.</p>

<p rend="center">THE DEBATE IN THE SENATE.</p>
<p>On the 26th Mr. Hale, a Republican Senator from New Hampshire,
demanded the correspondence with England on the Trent
question. Mr. Sumner, of Massachusetts, the chairman of the Committee
of Foreign Affairs, objected to this demand.</p>
<p>Mr. Hale stated that he had heard the Cabinet were considering the
proposition to surrender Messrs. Mason and Slidell. He said also he
would favour foreign arbitration; but, if England had demanded the
surrender of Messrs. Mason and Slidell, the Federal Government should
declare War against England. "If they were surrendered, the Senate,"
said Mr. Hale, "would be subject to the scorn and indignation of the
country, and the Administration would be hurled from power." Mr. Hale
believed that Napoleon would desire to wipe out the stain of Waterloo,
and that thousands of Irishmen in Canada would join the Federal
cause. Mr. Hale concluded a violent speech against England by urging
war sooner then the surrender of Messrs. Mason and Slidell.</p>
<p>Mr. Sumner urged that the consideration of the question should be
delayed until it was presented in a practical form. He denied that
there was proof of arrogant demands on the part of England, or that
the Administration had not considered the question of arbitration, and
stated his belief that the matter would be honourably and amicably
adjusted.</p>
<p>Mr. Hale's motion was tabled for future discussion.</p>
<p>On the 23rd the House of Representatives adjourn until the 2nd
instant.</p>

<p rend="center">T<hi rend="smallcaps">HE</hi> F<hi
rend="smallcaps">EELING</hi> A<hi rend="smallcaps">MONG</hi> T<hi
rend="smallcaps">HE</hi> C<hi rend="smallcaps">OMMERCIAL</hi> C<hi
rend="smallcaps">LASSES</hi></p>
<p>The trade circular of Messrs. Neill Brothers forcibly describes the
transition of sentiment among this class:-</p>
<p>The first emotion when the news of that event became public in this
country was a mingled one of surprise and delight with the boldness
and the exploit and at finding such important enemies in Northern
custody, and of fear that the act was illegal and impossible to
maintain. Even the President himself admitted that the prisoners would
probably have to be given up. But forthwith the press of this country,
whose main policy is to charm their readers and increase their own
popularity by telling the public whatever they would like to hear,
devoted themselves heart and soul to the work of convincing themselves
and their readers that the act was perfectly legal, in accordance with
precedent, and especially with English decisions. It is easy to
convince those who wish to believe; and as all the argument was on one
side, with none to expose its fallacies, sophistries, and
misrepresentations, it is not surprising that the mass of the people
should have been speedily satisfied; and, being convinced as to the
legality of the act, neither was it surprising that among a people so
self-confident as to their power of judging correctly and so vain of
their military strength, a unanimous determination should be arrived
at and expressed not, under any circumstances, to part with the
prisoners. The mob desired to hold them, right or wrong; the more
respectable citizens determined to hold them because they had already
been so easily convinced it was right. . . . .Thus for a few days war
between Great Britain and the Northern States seemed almost
inevitable. But wer are happy to be able to inform you that during the
past three days there has been a most salutary and extraordinary
change in public sentiment here and<pb n="35"/> throughout the
country. It was to a great extent a game of brag, after all, and none
the less so that the people had deceived themselves quite as much, if
not more, than they deceived others..... Whereas, a week ago, nine out
of every ten men would tell you that England might threaten as she
pleased, but the prisoners would never be given up, now the balance of
opinion is quite the other way.....Upon a deliberate review of the
delicate, and apparently extremely hazardous, relations of this
country with Great Britain, we are inclined to believe war between the
two nations now more distant than we thought it before the present
complication arose. The American Government had for some time past
acted upon a presumption that England's interests in the preservation
of peace with them were so great that she would bear any number of
petty indignities rather than make them a cause of war. This idea will
now probably be modified, and there may be a little more of that
respect shown to British subjects which they are accustomed to receive
in other foreign countries, and fewer arrests of them without process
of law or opportunities fir[sic] their justification or defence.</p>

<p rend="center">THE FEELING OF THE PEOPLE</p>
<p>The popular feeling in intensely hostile to England. Even those
journalists and others who urge the necessity of yielding in the
present instance do so, avowedly, from motives of expediency,
recording a vow meanwhile that henceforth England's difficulty shall
be America's opportunity. No passion less strong than that for
restoring the Union would, they say, allow them to consent to the
surrender of the captives. It is freely charged that the British
nation, in its desire for cotton and to dismember the Union, is only
seeking a pretext for a quarrel, and that they have taken advantage of
the momentary weakness of the United States to humiliate the latter to
the dust. It must be observed, however, that these lively expressions
of resentment were uttered before the despatches from the Continental
European Governments had been published.</p>

<p rend="center">A NEW DIFFICULTY.</p>
<p>The telegraph reports a new outrage on the British flag, apparently
similar to that of Commander Wilks. The Federal steamer Santiago de
Cuba overhauled, on the coastt of Texas, the schooner Eugenia Smith,
sailing under the British flag. She found nothing contraband on board,
but took from her deck two passengers, who, from the papers found upon
them, were supposed to be agents of the Confederate States. These
passengers, Messrs. Zacchiri and Rogers, had arrived at New York, and
been confined in Fort Lafayette. The telegram says that the schooner
was sailing between Matanzaosand Havannah, two Cuban ports; but for
Matanzas, Metamoras, a Mexican port, should probably be read.</p>

<p rend="center">THE TREATY WITH MEXICO.</p>
<p>A treaty between the United States and Mexico is reported to have
been submitted to Congress, by which the Federal Government agrees to
pay Mexico 11,000,000 dols, to refund the British and French
claims. Mexico is to grant the United States commercial privileges and
permission to transport across the Mexican territory.</p>

<p rend="center">BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS.</p>
<p>The harbour of Charleston has been destroyed, sixteen whaling hulks
filled with granite, having been sunk in three parallel lines
equidistant across the channel. The flow permitted to the water will
prevent the cutting of a new outlet, and the obstruction will soon
accumulate a triple line of sandbanks across the entrance.</p>
<p>A force of 1300 Confederates have surrendered themselves to the
Federal forces on Missouri, with their baggage and equipments.</p>
<p>There has also been a slight engagement at Drainsville, near
Leesburg, in Virginia, in which the Confederates, being overnumbered,
were forced to retire.</p>
<p>From Beaufort, South Carolina, the Federal forces have dispatched
to New York a cargo of 120,O00lb. of sea-island cotton, gathered by
the refugee negroes, and there were 400,000lb. more ready for shipment
by the next vessel.</p>

<p rend="center">FINANCE.</p>
<p>Congress has raised the duty on tea to 20 cents per pound, on
coffee to 5 cents per pound; on sugar, 2 1-3, 3, 5, and 8 cents per
pound, according to quality, and on molasses to 6 cents per
gallon. These measures were in accordance with Mr. Chase's
recommendation. These duties came into force immediately, and apply to
all goods in warehouse.</p>
<p>Congress has appropriated 1,500,000 dollars for gun-boats on the
western lakes, and 1,200,000 dollars for the establishment of a naval
d&eacute;p&ocirc;t on Lake Michigan.</p>
<p>The New York banks have lost five million dollars in specie in a
fortnight, and the Sub-Treasury four millions; yet only about half a
million has left the country, although the rate of exchange gives a
profit on the export of specie to England. It is evident, therefore,
that hoarding has begun. Under those circumstances a suspension of
cash payments is considered to be imminent.</p>

<p rend="center">MISCELLANEOUS.</p>
<p>Mr. Wendell Phillips, the Abolitionist leader of Boston, had
delivered an address in favour of emancipation and against the
"reconstruction" of the Union, in the Cooper Institute, New York, to a
crowded audience, consisting of the &eacute;lite of the city.</p>
<p>At the annual dinner of the New England Society to commemorate the
landing of the Pilgrim Fathers, a letter from Mr. Seward was read,
dated Dec. 11, of which the following is the material portion:-</p>
<p>Dear Sir,-Pray present my apology to the sons of New England for
declining their invitation to the New England dinner. My duties here
allow me little enjoyment of the holidays. If it were an Old England
dinner instead of a New England feast I would certainly strain a point
to attend. I would like so good an opportunity to attempt to show to
our cousins across the seas that there is no material benefit or moral
influence that can accrue to us that will not also increase the
prosperity and greatness of Great Britain, and that every disaster
that befalls the United States is also pregnant with suffering and
sorrow sooner or later to be borne by Great Britain.</p>
	    </div2>

<div2 id="iln40.1125.013" n="LATEST NEWS FROM ABROAD" type="Article">

<head>LATEST NEWS FROM ABROAD</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1126</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 35</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 11, 1862</date>
         <extent>3 paragraphs</extent>
	</bibl>

<p>Thomas D'Arcy M'Gee, in a letter just published, declining to speak
at a festival of the New England Society, at Montreal, writes as
follows:-</p>
<p>"I declare most absolutely, and it is well that the opponents of
Canada should know in time, that the Irish inhabitants of this colony
will be found embattled as one man in defence of the Canadian
Constitution and the Imperial connection. There is hardly a group of
Irish settlers in Upper or Lower Canada that I have not personally
visited during the last four or five years. There is not a man of note
amongst them, layman or cleric, that I have not met: and I declare
that I have yet to meet the first man of all those bodies and orders
of men who does not frankly and loyally prefer our Canadian
Institutions to those of the United States. Formerly, I believe, it
was different with many among them (as I own it was some years ago
with myself); but since the era of 'the knownothing' movement the last
vestige of political preference for the United States has disappeared
among the Irish here."</p>

<p rend="center">ARRIVAL OF A FEDERAL WAR-STEAMER AT SOUTHAMPTON.-</p>
<p>A correspondent writes from Southampton on Wednesday evening as
follows:- "The Tuscarora, one of the new screw-corvettes built for the
Federal Navy, arrived in the river this afternoon, about half-past
three o'clock, from New York. She left that port on the 15th ult., and
had a very rough passage across the Atlantic, and put into Fayal for
coals, sailing thence eight days since. From Fayal she has had fine
weather. The Tuscarora is commanded by Captain T. Augustus Craven, and
her officers and crew number about 200 in all. She mounts nine heavy
guns, two of them the famous 11-inch columbiads (both on pivots), six
broadside guns, and a rifled Parrot gun on the forecastle. The
corvette is a smart-looking vessel, of 1200 tons burden, and barque
rigged. She is just built, and only arrived at New York from
Philadelphia on the 9th ult. It is understood that her mission in
these waters is specially to look after the Nashville, and generally
to protect the interests of Federal shipping. The Nashville remains in
dock, and her future movements are, of course, kept profoundly
secret. She is coaled and ready for sea; and it was rumoured this
morning that she was going out of dock during the day into the river;
but up to this time (five p.m.) she is lying quietly in her
berth. Whether she will now keep her quarters a close prisoner, keenly
watched by the Tuscarora, until the conflict is over, or whether, on
some favourable opportunity, she will venture to 'run the blockade'
and escape, time only can determine."</p></div2>

<div2 id="iln40.1125.014" n="THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS" type="Article">

<head>THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1126</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 38</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 11, 1862</date>
         <extent>5 paragraphs</extent>
	</bibl>

<p rend="center"><hi rend="italic">LONDON, SATURDAY, JANUARY</hi> 11,
1862.</p>

<p>T<hi rend="smallcaps">HE</hi> dove has come and not the eagle. On
Wednesday evening a telegram from Lord Lyons was brought by the City
of Washington mail-steamer announcing that the act of Captain Wilks
was annulled by the surrender of Messrs. Mason and Slidell and their
two secretaries. The relations between England and the Northern States
are, therefore, placed upon their former footing.</p>
<p>That Mr. Lincoln has performed this act of justice is
sufficient. In what way it has been done, what the document with which
Mr. Seward has accompanied the notification to Lord Lyons may be, what
the American journals may say, what indignation may be expressed by
mob meetings- are all considerations which may be set apart from the
main point. A Government has had the wisdom to do justice and to
repudiate, by deed if not by word, an outrage upon the flag of another
Government. It may be that the right thing has been done in the wrong
manner, and that there may be little cause for sentimental outbreak
upon the subject. But right has been done, and the horrors of war have
been averted; and in this there is surely enough to prompt the myriads
who will assemble to-morrow in the House of Prayer to offer grateful
thanksgivings to Him who " heareth and answereth prayer."</p>
<p>It would, at the same time, be an absurd affectation to pretend any
doubt as to the human means that have wrought this most desirable
issue. England has made at once an unmistakable manifestation of
feeling and a magnificent demonstration of power, and public opinion
and wise statesmanship have acted in unison. It was made clear to the
American Government that we should enforce our rights, and the
President has had the prudence to risk unpopularity for the hour
instead of encountering defeat and disgrace for his country. We do not
see that it is either necessary or generous to examine too closely the
reasons which he may offer to the excited people of America. If he
chooses to tell them that they are engaged in what has, up to the
present time, been an unsuccessful war, which is costing them a
million and a quarter of dollars every day, and that for the sake of
detaining four gentlemen in a State prison it was not worth while to
engage in a new contest, in which the overwhelming force of the most
powerful nation in the world, supported by the opinion of Europe,
would instantly be brought to bear upon the North, we have no right to
complain that he should take that line, instead of boldly declaring
that he unhesitatingly reversed a wrong. Mr. Seward's State paper, be
it what it may, has been framed rather for his own countrymen than for
England, and will in due course be answered, no doubt, by the terse
dialectics of the Foreign Office. Some of the journals will, of
course, be venomous, and will threaten us with signal chastisement
when the empire of the North shall be re-established and the South,
trampled, shall be unable to interfere. For this, and for the Greek
Kalends, we will wait patiently. The single point on which it is
possible that the good-hearted John Bull may feel he would like to
reply is the allegation that he made his demand "in the hour of
America's disasters and distress." This is altogether a brand-new
statement of the case. Six weeks ago we were solemnly and vauntfully
assured that America was exceedingly rich and powerful, and had nearly
three-quarters of a million of soldiers ready for anything. The South
was to be repressed the moment General M'Clellan should be ready to
move, and then the army of the North could move upon Canada, or
Ireland, or Yorkshire, if necessary. Therefore we had no right to know
anything about distress or disaster, and might consider ourselves as
doing a bold thing in asking the flushed and fiery champions of the
Union to surrender their prey. But, even supposing that the North were
unfavourably circumstanced, it could not justify her in doing a wrong
or us in submitting to one. It is not because a man is irritated and
upon bad terms with his wife and family that he is to be allowed to
rush into another man's house and carry off his property. We have,
however, made the demand for reparation in the most considerate way,
have done everything to conciliate, and, by means of a graceful and
informal piece of diplomacy, we left it open to Mr. Lincoln to seize
the opportunity of making an open to Mr. Lincoln to seize the
opportunity of making an unenforced atonement for a pirate's
action. We are therefore clear of all blame in the whole transaction,
and legally, morally, and even sentimentally, we have shown ourselves
friends to the Americans. When the storm shall have gone down this
will be admitted by all except the viler of the journals. It is said
that a man whose position may, at no distant date, be a far higher one
than is now supposed- the Commander of the American Army- has already
declared that England has acted rightly.</p>
<p>We must now wait details, but we wait in a far different attitude
from that in which we were to be found until Wednesday. We welcome the
dove, and Britannia throws down the lanyard, rejoiced that she is
spared the pain of a straggle with those for whom, despite all their
unkindness, she ever retains a warmer sympathy than she can feel for
any other nation in the world.</p>
	      </div2>

<div2 id="iln40.1125.015" n="[AMONG the Illustrations of the civil war
      in America]" type="Article">

<head>[AMONG the Illustrations of the civil war
      in America]</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1126</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 40</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 11, 1862</date>
         <extent>1 paragraph</extent>
	</bibl>

<p>A<hi rend="smallcaps">MONG</hi> the Illustrations of the civil war
in America which, by means of our Special Artist in the Federal camp
on the Potomac, we have been enabled to give in this Journal, some
have been devoted to showing the queer punishments to which the
rowdies of the camp are subjected; and our Number for the 28th of
December last contained an Engraving of the drumming a loafing scamp
out of the Federal army. These, however, are common incidents in camp
life. The provost-marshal of the Alexandrian division has had to carry
out a severer sentence. On Dec. 13 a private in the Lincoln Cavalry,
named Johnson, was executed at Fairfax Seminary, near Washington, for
desertion. The execution took place before a large body of troops. As
the procession passed along, the doomed man was seated in a waggon,
and by his side was a Roman Catholic priest, who was giving to him the
last ministration of religion. He held open a prayer-book before the
prisoner, who, with his head bowed down, was attentively reciting a
prayer. When he had arrived at the place of execution he alighted from
the waggon and seated himself on the coffin. Twelve men, detailed to
execute the sentence, took their position about six paces in front. He
addressed a few words to them, stating that as fellow-soldiers he
hoped they would forgive him for having committed the offence he had,
and that they would not do as he had done. A few parting words were
given to his spiritual adviser and three or four officers, after which
he prepared himself to have the sentence executed. He was seated on
his coffin when the word was given to fire. Eight balls pierced
various parts of his body, but as he only showed a slight tremor the
reserve was ordered to fire, and four other shots were fired, one of
which entered his eye, and another his mouth, and he fell
dead.</p></div2>
 
<div2 id="iln40.1125.016" n="[The privateer Sumter]" type="Article">

<head>[The privateer Sumter]</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1126</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 43</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 11, 1862</date>
         <extent>1 paragraph</extent>
	</bibl>

<p>The privateer Sumter, after being, as was thought, sighted off
Ramsgate, has turned up at Cadiz, where, with the officers and
crews-forty-two persons in all-of three Federal merchant-vessels which
she had destroyed at sea, she solicited permission to enter the
port. The American Consul demanded that this request should be
refused, but, the Government having been consulted, the Sumter was
admitted into the port without being saluted.</p></div2>

<div2 id="iln40.1125.017" n="[Mr. Wendell Phillips delivered a speech]" type="Article">

<head>[Mr. Wendell Phillips delivered a speech]</head>
      <bibl> 
        <title>The Illustrated London News</title> 
           <biblScope type="volume">vol. 40</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="issue">no. 1126</biblScope> 
           <biblScope type="pages">p. 55</biblScope> 
           <date value="1861-07-06">Jan. 11, 1862</date>
         <extent>1 paragraph</extent>
	</bibl>

<p>Mr. Wendell Phillips delivered a speech in New York on the 19th
ult. in favour of the immediate abolition of slavery. Cooper's
Institute was crowded, and his audience included a large number of the
elite of the city. His radical anti-slavery sentiments evoked
unbounded enthusiasm.</p></div2>

